>> Steve Kinney: We'll talk
a little bit about generation.
And generation is effectively
parsing in reverse, right?
You have taken your syntax,
you've figured out all the tokens,
you've figured out it's semantic
meaning and all of those things, and
now you want to do a thing with it.
We evaluated it, but if we wanted to turn
it into some other compile time target,
this is where that would happen.
And there's a lot of options,
you can write your own low
level CPU instruction compiler.
That's a great idea.
You can use a compiler
framework like LLVM,
which is even what like Rust target,
Swift, I think of Objective C these days.
With LLVM you can actually target web
assembly with a target as well, right?
And so you can create a web assembly
first language that you wanna use and
target the JVM, the Java Virtual Machine.
And you can transpile it, right?
Which is gonna be the avenue that we
take cuz I think at this point is,
I'm building this for the browser or
to do JavaScript stuff with it.
It's heavily reliant on JavaScript as its
effective platform that it's running on.
So that makes the most sense for us.
Now, when you wanna target another
language, you have a few options, right?
You can, our language is simple right now.
If we wanted to, we could say, all right,
I got you an identifier, right?
Read the identifier, then put a bracket,
then join all the arguments with
a comma in between, then put the closing
brace and a semicolon, right?
And as our language grows, we could
customize this and do more and more.
And that's a fine option,
and maybe this language for
you isn't targeting JavaScript, right?
Maybe it's targeting, maybe you
are trying to output CPU or Bash, or
something along those lines.
Those are options and
things you can absolutely do.
The other option that you have is,
and we kinda talked about
this a little bit earlier,
is that you can traverse that tree and
manipulate it, and get into the point
where it becomes a tree that some other
generator that exists how to use.
And so we saw that,
there is a specification,
kind of that is an agreement
in the JavaScript community.
If the tree meets these facts,
most generators can then generate some
amount of the syntax based on it, right?
And the Babel one is
actually pretty forgiving.
We saw in the AST explorer,
a lot of the property,
the Babel parses and makes available.
And those are super useful for things like
source maps, and stuff along those lines.
But, the actual amount that
you need to able to be truly
generate stuff is a lot smaller.
We also I mentioned earlier made
some like purposeful choices
to kind of already be kind of
close here to the Babel specs.
All we have to do is kind of
massage it the rest of the way, and
kind of get a taste of that.
So the Babel generator, right?
And there's a lot of tools, Babel has not
only just Babel thing that we use, but
it's got a lot of tools to it
through traversing trees and
stuff along those lines.
We're gonna write some
more about ourselves and
rely too much on Babel for that.
But the generator is super
useful because joining arrays
of arguments with commas is fun,
but I'd rather not.
It takes effectively three options.
The code is kind of important for
the source maps.
So really, as long as we give it
an abstract syntax tree, which guess what?
We have, right?
As long as we get an abstract syntax tree,
then we should be able to
spit out that code, right?
So, what we need to do, is we need
to figure out a way to transform
our existing abstract syntax tree into
one that Babel can understand, right?
We kind of a taste for that, right?
And you can kind of like take it
to its natural conclusion as well.